README.md, before:

# OpenBSD Cloud Images

This repository contains a build system to create OpenBSD cloud images on Linux machines.
Most automated build systems provide great support for Linux but mostly not for OpenBSD.
Until this changes, the build framework will focus on Linux to allow everyone to automatically build OpenBSD images for their servers.

## Local Build Environment

This framework provides a Vagrantfile with a defined host system to build the images.

    $ vagrant up
    $ vagrant ssh

## Usage

Build cloud image:

    make

Possible arguments:

  * `PROFILE`: the OpenBSD profile to build, see below
  * `PROVIDER`: the cloud provider to build for, see below
  * `DISKSIZE`: image size like `10` (GB)

## Profiles

Profiles define the basic configuration of the OpenBSD system.
They primarily define the installed file sets.
There are the following profiles defined:

  * `default`: Installs all sets except for `comp` (compiler) and `game` (games).
  * `full`: Installs all sets.
  * `minimal`: Installs only `base` and `man`.

List all available profiles:

    make profiles

Show current profile:

    make profile

Set the profile with the `PROFILE` variable:

    make PROFILE=6.8/minimal

## Provider

Providers define cloud specific configurations of the OpenBSD system.

List all available providers:

    make providers

Show current provider:

    make provider

Set the profile with the `PROVIDER` variable:

    make PROVIDER=qemu/default

## Mirror

To download the OpenBSD file sets, a default mirror is set but can be overriden.

Show current mirror:

    make mirror

Set the mirror with the `MIRROR` variable:

    make MIRROR=https://ftp.openbsd.org/pub/OpenBSD/

## License

Copyright (c) 2020 Tobias Sarnowski <tobias@sarnowski.io>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Use one cache key for all profiles and fix teardown
* One cache for all builds should be enough since all mirror artifacts
  can be shared
* Teardown on GitHub Actions had no permission to read the webfs pid
  file.
* Added the build status badge and a brief overview of providers

README.md, after:

# OpenBSD Cloud Images

![OpenBSD Cloud Images Status](https://github.com/sarnowski/openbsd-cloud-images/workflows/Cloud-Images/badge.svg?branch=main)

This repository contains a build system to create OpenBSD cloud images on Linux machines.
Most automated build systems provide great support for Linux but mostly not for OpenBSD.
Until this changes, the build framework will focus on Linux to allow everyone to automatically build OpenBSD images for their servers.

The following providers are supported:

  * azure
  * qemu / kvm

## Local Build Environment

This framework provides a Vagrantfile with a defined host system to build the images.

    $ vagrant up
    $ vagrant ssh

## Usage

Build cloud image:

    make

Possible arguments:

  * `PROFILE`: the OpenBSD profile to build, see below
  * `PROVIDER`: the cloud provider to build for, see below
  * `DISKSIZE`: image size like `10` (GB)

## Profiles

Profiles define the basic configuration of the OpenBSD system.
They primarily define the installed file sets.
There are the following profiles defined:

  * `default`: Installs all sets except for `comp` (compiler) and `game` (games).
  * `full`: Installs all sets.
  * `minimal`: Installs only `base` and `man`.

List all available profiles:

    make profiles

Show current profile:

    make profile

Set the profile with the `PROFILE` variable:

    make PROFILE=6.8/minimal

## Provider

Providers define cloud specific configurations of the OpenBSD system.

List all available providers:

    make providers

Show current provider:

    make provider

Set the profile with the `PROVIDER` variable:

    make PROVIDER=qemu/default

## Mirror

To download the OpenBSD file sets, a default mirror is set but can be overriden.

Show current mirror:

    make mirror

Set the mirror with the `MIRROR` variable:

    make MIRROR=https://ftp.openbsd.org/pub/OpenBSD/

## License

Copyright (c) 2020 Tobias Sarnowski <tobias@sarnowski.io>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
